+++
title = 'Chat Assisted Developer'
date = 2024-09-12T11:33:51+02:00
tags= ["programming", "tools", "productivity", "ai", "github-copilot"]
+++

I have a GitHub Copilot subscription, which provides access to the best code completion on the market. After adding comments detailing what I expect from new classes or methods, Copilot generates ready-to-use code, which usually requires minor adjustments. I estimate that over 50% of my code is generated by Copilot, effectively doubling my productivity.

A typical developer writes between 20 to 100 lines of code per day, which is not much, especially when adhering to best practices such as SOLID and layered architecture. These practices ensure code is understandable, extensible, and maintainable, but they also reduce the number of features implemented due to the higher amount of code you need to write. This is where GitHub Copilot allows developers to become mythical x10 engineers. 

With Copilot, a developer transitions into a role akin to a team lead, overseeing junior developers who handle simple, labor-intensive tasks. This shift frees up more time for designing application architecture and solving complex problems (also with Copilot’s assistance).

I believe that all developers should have a GitHub Copilot subscription (or similar services if preferred). In the modern IT industry, the speed of development and implementation of new features is a key success factor. Teams using Copilot can work faster and more efficiently. Without tools to assist with routine tasks, developers might face burnout from high workloads and monotonous work. Copilot frees up time for innovative tasks and creative solutions, instead of writing typical code. Utilizing advanced tools can positively impact team morale, demonstrating that the company invests in modern technologies to ease their work.

The post was inspired by [this article](https://sourcegraph.com/blog/chat-oriented-programming-in-action).
